the freezing temperatures of the arctic
circle
intense off-road driving in the searing
heat of the sahara desert
not to mention wild animals that are
ready to pounce without warning
that's what a journey of a giant block
of ice looked like
the thing was moved from the arctic
circle all the way to the scorching
equator
in the back of a pickup truck rewind
back to 1959
when the world was going through some
tough times and a cola
cost you a nickel radio luxembourg
presented its listeners
with a challenge it was to transport
three tons of ice from the arctic circle
to the equator
anyone could take part in this adventure
the only condition
and a tough one of that was that no
refrigerator could be used
throughout the journey to make things
even spicier
they offered a reward for those who
could do it
a whopping 50 000 frogs for each pound
of ice that remained
at the end of the journey which would be
around 9
000 per pound these days and if someone
managed to deliver the entire block
they could get around 50 million dollars
as soon as the challenge was announced
the guys from the radio just kicked back
and waited for the laps to pour in but
burrier notvick
wasn't laughing at that time he needed
money to develop
his business which was manufacturing
glass wool insulation
if the man succeeded he could help his
family and
employees so his company glossbot
based in norway took on the challenge
and surprised
everyone around especially the radio
station
it seemed to be an impossible task no
one had ever accomplished such a feat
the total distance was around 5 000
miles
all in the boiling sun he would probably
melt the entire ice block
even before it reached the shores of
europe but buryer
was a smart man and had a brilliant plan
up his sleeve
the radio company figured out what the
man was going to do
they realized how much they would lose
if he were to succeed
the result they cancelled the entire
money reward
when burrier heard of the news he was at
a loss
he'd already gone to the arctic circle
and prepared to excavate some ice
luckily before he knew it the situation
gathered so much media attention
that sponsors from eight different
countries lined up to support notfix
journey
famous petrol company shell provided his
expedition with fuel
and transport manufacturer scania gave
them a pickup truck
buryer notvick and his team started to
cut through ice
of course they couldn't get a single
piece that would weigh three tons
that's why they chopped up several 450
pound blocks of ice
and then they transported all those
pieces by helicopter to the town
center then they melted them together to
create a giant chunk of ice
after that the ice was supposed to be
placed in the back of a large pickup
truck
but it wasn't enough to prevent it from
melting and the team
couldn't use any methods of
refrigeration
buryer decided to put the ice in a
specially constructed iron container
insulated with glass wool and wood it
would keep the ice
more or less intact without breaking the
rules of the challenge
it was a very clever way of insulating
glass wool
is made of melted glass fibers the air
gets trapped between the thin glass
strands
and can't flow out this way there are no
dramatic temperature changes
along with the massive chunk of ice the
truck also carried
around 650 pounds of medicines they had
to be delivered to a hospital
that was on the way of the expedition on
february 22nd
1959 the epic journey across the
continents began
it started in norway then the team
traveled through copenhagen
hamburg brussels paris and marseille
in europe almost everyone knew about the
unusual journey
notvic and his people were greeted with
cheers and claps
as they drove through large cities and
small towns
the roads were well paved and weather
conditions didn't bring any problems
news spread even further south when the
expedition reached paris
by that time they'd already become
celebrities
the police even escorted them through
some of the busiest streets
to make way for the truck carrying the
ice the mayor
invited buryer and his team for lunch
the ice was in good condition until it
arrived at the port of marseille
that's when things started to look
challenging the team had to use a crane
to lift the pickup truck and load it on
the ship
he was supposed to take them to the
coast of algeria
not vic and his people realized they
were about to start the most difficult
part of the trip
bye bye to the cool landscapes of europe
they'd have to endure
the scorching sun of the desert before
being able to finish their trip
soon enough they were on their way to
the final destination but the ice was
melting away
much faster than before that's why the
expedition
had to move at an ever increasing speed
but it turned out to be challenging it
was almost impossible
not to get stuck in the sand
at that time the sahara had no paved
roads for miles on end
so buryer and his crew had to dig their
heavily loaded car
out of the sand in the scorching sun
every day
the temperatures got higher and higher
sometimes
it was hotter than 120 degrees
fahrenheit
the truck got stuck more and more often
the ice was melting faster than before
it seemed to be just a matter of time
before all they were transporting across
the sahara
was a large swimming pool filled with
cool water
and still no one was ready to give up
and to go back home
they made camps in the desert during the
nights and kept driving during the days
the finish line was right there they
came across many friendly nomadic tribes
that were traveling on camel's backs
these desert dwellers helped the
expedition with some food
in return the crew offered them the most
unique water
the locals would ever have melted ice
from the arctic
nomads know how to survive the extreme
temperatures of the sahara desert
they're accustomed to such an unusual
lifestyle
but they would have tough times without
camels
often called the ships of the desert
these unique animals
store fat in their humps when camels
can't find any food or water in the
desert
they turned this fat into energy
anyway after many days under the burning
sun
notvic and his people finally left the
desert and
entered the jungle of gabon soon
they reached libreville their final
destination
many locals gathered around to witness
history in the making
and one of the most bizarre road trips
ever
the ice was still in one piece buryer
and his crew were in one piece and it
only took them
27 days to get from norway to libreville
not bad but the main question was
how much ice had melted away they
weighed it
and did all the necessary calculations
and then
their jaws dropped at the beginning of
their journey
the weight of the ice block was 6 700
pounds
but now the ice measured to be 6 000
pounds which meant that only around 700
pounds of ice
had melted away even after it had
traveled halfway across the world
through different countries and
different climates
the whole world was shocked to find out
about the outcome of the expedition
apparently if you transported a giant
block of ice from the arctic circle to
the equator
you'd only lose 11 percent of that ice
along the way
not vic gave most of the ice to the
locals these people had never seen
or touched frozen water before the rest
of the ice
was flown back home to norway it was
then used for the drinks
at numerous press conferences the return
journey was much easier
the members of the expedition simply
flew back by plane
charles de gaulle the president of
france at that time offered to
personally greet them in paris if they
drove back by truck
but the exhausted team declined nothing
would make them drive through the desert
again
the journey was a success even though
there was no reward money for the
challenge
the expedition reached its goal and
burier
attracted worldwide attention to his
company and its products